[SHIMMERING]
>> This is "Secret
Life of Symbols."
>> On this episode I'd like
to talk a little bit about
the sun, and its symbolic
importance in the whole story
of the zodiac.
Now, as we begin the
story of the sun,
and the ancient
religions of the world,
and how much the sun has
dominated civilization
for as long as we
have records, we
need to go back to
the very beginning.
And that's a long time ago.
Let's go back to Egypt.
We'll start in
Egypt because that's
one of the oldest
civilizations on the Earth.
And we will see
how Egypt developed
the concept of the importance
of the sun in relation
to theology, spirituality,
and religion.
Now, this is an ancient symbol
for the sun, prehistoric,
that the ancient peoples
drew to represent the sun.
It's an equal armed
cross within the circle.
Here is an artifact that
was found in England.
On its own hinge.
And it's on a golden circle,
which represents the sun.
And then you'll see
the cross in between.
And this is about
4,500 years old.
Almost 5,000 years
ago ancient mankind
drew pictures of what
they perceived the sun
to be as an equal armed cross.
And you will see it also in the
ancient religions of the Near
and Middle East, the different
ancient gods in the Phoenician,
Canaanite, Sumerian systems.
They all had the
equal armed cross.
But it's important to remember
that the sun was never
perceived as a god.
It was perceived to represent
the spiritual qualities of God.
And that it brought
life to the Earth.
It brought warmth to the Earth.
And brought energy
for us to live.
So all of the good things
about God and his creation
was best represented by
this symbol of the sun.
Sometimes the sun
actually even looks
like it has an equal armed
cross in the heavens.
The reason why four
equal arms on the cross
is because there are four
equal seasons of the year.
We have north, east, west,
and south, the four corners.
Then each one of
those four corners
represents a season of the year.
Spring, summer, autumn, winter.
This is why you have four
gospels, Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John.
Because they're talking
about the life of the sun.
The ancient peoples,
like us today, we
draw a circle, a round
circle, and we divide it
into four equal parts.
And so now you have an equal
armed cross inside of a circle.
And Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John.
Spring, summer, autumn, winter.
There are a lot of
symbolism in the Bible
that we have misunderstood
and mistaken.
The whole idea is the four
lodging places of the sun.
It gives us our four
seasons of the year.
You will find the equal armed
cross all over the world.
Every race, creed, and
color has the same symbol
for the ancient sun.
The Nordics had the symbol.
The Vikings kept the symbol.
Ancient France used the symbol.
This symbol was on rocks,
and carvings, and paintings.
Even in India you have
the equal armed cross.
The Celtic and the
Celtic druids in Europe,
in England and Ireland
had an equal armed cross.
Native Americans used
it, Central American,
and especially Mayan,
and Inca, and some
of the ancient religions
in South America
have used the equal armed cross.
So it became known
around the world
that the equal armed
cross within a circle
represented the 5,000 year old
petroglyph concept of the sun.
Today, people see it everywhere.
And so it has become
not really important,
because it's just
a general symbol
that people realize is a cross.
Here is a picture of the
ancient Nordic peoples
that were preparing for
what we would call today
the Easter sunrise service.
Here the ancient
peoples in Europe
realize that the
sun was coming back
to the northern hemisphere.
And it would bring with it the
warmth, the food, and life.
And so they all gathered
with their sun symbol
to welcome back the sun
that had died in winter,
and it was coming back to
the northern hemisphere.
It became known as what
we call today Easter.
The circle on the cross is
not a man dying on the cross.
It's the sun on the north,
east, west, and southern parches
of the Earth.
The idea being, of
course, is that when
the sun dies in
winter, and then when
it is reborn on December
25, the sun actually
begins to move northward.
And when it does,
that tells the world
that the sun is now coming back
to the northern hemisphere,
bringing back the sun to us
in the northern hemisphere.
Because for us, in the
northern hemisphere,
the sun was dead
to us, because it
was in the southern hemisphere.
But now it's being born
again, and coming back
to the northern hemisphere.
That's the whole
story in itself is
the vision of the sun
going southward and dying
on the cross, and then
being reborn on December 25
when it moves one
degree northward.
And now it is coming back and
sort of springing back to life.
And so in the spring, we call
it springing back to life.
Well, you will have
this symbol everywhere.
And even the European
agency for the euro
uses the same equal armed
cross to represent the new Euro
establishment.
You will always find in
royalty throughout the world,
royalty and governments always
use this equal armed cross.
The Nazis used it.
Even in the parade
of the Nazis used
the swastika, which is a
symbol of the sun also.
But you will see
also that they are
using the equal armed cross.
Coptic Christians.
Even the kings and rulers,
like the emperors of Europe
always had the equal armed
cross on their staff.
Equal armed cross with
the sun god and churches.
In mid September
around the world,
Christians will gather in
schools and universities
to worship their god
Jesus who died on a cross.
And what they call this
ritual, see you at the pole.
See you at the pole means that
Christians will gather around
the flagpole at their
colleges and schools
to venerate and to
worship Jesus, God's son,
the light of the world.
Well, of course, the sun
is the light of the world.
But here are Christians
gathering to worship Jesus,
never realizing that
they are actually
meeting around a very ancient
symbol of the old petroglyph
cross.
That this symbol of an equal
armed cross within the circle
represents an old ancient idea
of how to picture the sun.
And it's really extraordinary
to notice that all churches use
that same symbol.
And all over the
world people do not
realize that this
cross that they
think represents Christianity is
actually over 5,000 years old.
It's an ancient prehistoric
symbol of the sun.
Jesus has always represented
the sun, the S-U-N. Not S-O-N.
The etymology of the
word for the sun.
You see that sun can
be S-U-N or S-O-N.
And depending on how it's used.
S-O-N and S-U-N are
used interchangeably
in Christianity.
Illustrations in the
Christian church,
you will see they are all
actually a round, glowing sun.
Not a young child, or a baby,
or a man, but the S-U-N.
There's two words.
S-U-N, and S-O-N. But
Christianity and Judaism
are based on the
worship of the S-U-N,
not S-O-N. That's
a misunderstanding.
That misunderstanding
is part of the history
of the English language.
Because if you go back into
the King's old English,
you go back into the history
of the English language,
there is a phenomena which in
English class you will learn
is called the lazy O.
The lazy O is a
phenomena in English
which means that
translators always
translated sun, S-O-N and
S-U-N all in the same sentence.
And so it became
known as the lazy O.
They were talking
about the S-U-N.
But they used S-O-N
because they were lazy.
They just used either one.
The mother of Jesus is Mary,
which is actually Mari,
M-A-R-I. Not M-A-R-Y.
Mari means pure.
And therefore, the mother of
Jesus is a virgin, or Virgo.
One of the 12 signs of the
zodiac is a Virgo, the Virgin.
So here is Mari, or
Mary, the Virgin, Virgo,
holding the baby Jesus, or God's
sun, the light of the world.
Today we still have Jesus
as God's son in the heavens.
And he became now
a great sun god.
But the question you need to ask
yourself is, who owns the sun?
We assume that the sun
must be owned by someone.
Well, mankind
doesn't own the sun.
If anything, you would say
maybe God owns the sun.
So if God owns the sun,
then it's God's sun.
And he's the light of the world.
Of course the sun is
the light of the world.
Looking at the communion host,
the Catholic communion host,
you will see it always
looks like the old, ancient
petroglyph sun.
You'll see that the
sun in Jesus' hand
represents the S-U-N.
The holy Eucharist
represents the sun.
This is why the priests
in the church on Sundays
will raise the sun.
They will raise it.
And why?
Because that's
what the sun does.
It rises.
So the sun rises.
This is why we have
the symbols on the host
in the Catholic church.
It is always the
old petroglyph sun.
Jesus means God is with us.
And you will see the priest
is representing Jesus how?
As a sun.
All of this goes back many,
many thousands and thousands
of years before
Christianity ever existed.
And it has nothing to do
with Christianity at all.
It has to do with exactly what
it's showing, sun worship.
And today we're still
doing the same thing.
We're worshipping the sun.
And you will see the
sun is prominent in all
of Catholicism.
Everywhere you
look in Catholicism
are worshipers of the sun.
Now, here we have a picture of
Jesus giving to the children
a part of his body.
And what is he giving them?
A little, round sun disc.
We're told that we should
all take part of his body
at the first communion.
And at Communion in
the Catholic church
you take a part of
God's sun's body.
The whole idea is very obvious
what's being talked about here.
We're just talking
about sun worship.
The idea that the
sun dies on the cross
goes back to the old
petroglyph cross.
And so that's where
we see it now,
all over the world,
all of Christianity.
You'll see the sun is
always dying on the cross,
because in the southern
constellations when you go down
south, when the sun
reaches the lowest
part in the sky in the
southern hemisphere,
there is a constellation
of stars that
look just exactly like a cross.
And so we say the sun,
when it dies in December,
it goes down and
dies on the cross.
The cross is called
the Southern Cross.
When he was dead, but
now he's coming back
to the northern
hemisphere, because he
promised he would return.
And he is returning,
again, in the spring.
Solar symbolism of the sun
going southward each day
until it finally
reaches December 22 when
it's at its lowest point
in the southern sky--
it's down in the south now.
It's gone south.
But on December 22, the sun
goes as far in the South
as it's going to go.
And it stops going
southward on December 22.
It doesn't go any
further southward.
Then on the 23rd and 24th,
it rises on the same degree.
And therefore, for three
days it doesn't move at all.
It stays the same degree.
So we say, and
the ancient people
said that Jesus, our God's
sun, died for three days.
Why?
Because it was moving every day.
And now it's not
moving for three days.
So for three days
the sun was dead.
And on December 25, the sun
moves one degree northward,
which indicates, and
even the United States
Navy will show you
on their instruments,
that it indicates the
sun is now alive again.
He is born again.
Now he's going to
work his way back
to the northern hemisphere.
Because God's sun
said, I will return.
Well, he does.
He returns every year.
So what do you see?
Do you see a man on this cross?
Do you see a man
dying on the cross?
No.
This is what is actually
meant by dying on the cross.
It's the sun.
During the summer when the sun
is in the northern hemisphere,
it is in the
constellation of Leo.
So he is the lion of
the tribe of Judah.
And then when he dies, he
dies in Capricorn, down south
when he goes south.
And so now he dies
in the winter.
And then he comes back
and springs back to life.
And when he comes back to
the northern hemisphere,
we call it spring.
But when it crosses
the equator--
the sun will have to cross
the equator coming back to us
in the north.
When it crosses
the equator, it is
said to have passed
over the equator.
So in the Hebrew religion,
when the sun passes over,
coming back to the
northern hemisphere,
they call that
celebration the Passover.
But for Christians,
they're worshipping the sun
also as it passes over.
But they refer to it
as the Resurrection.
And the God's sun
has been resurrected.
He's come back.
It doesn't matter
how you say it,
a Resurrection or a Passover.
It just means the sun
is coming back to us
in the northern hemisphere.
Sun worship is a
very old religion,
dating back thousands of
years before the Roman Empire.
But in Rome, the sun
god was called Mithra.
Mithraism was the main religion
in the Roman Empire at the time
that Christianity was coming
into play in the Roman Empire.
Emperor Constantine was
a follower of Mithra.
And Mithra was God's
sun who died on a cross.
He was dead for three
days and rose again.
The Emperor Constantine was
famous for starting the Roman
Catholic church.
The Roman Catholic church
was not started by Jesus.
It was started by
a Roman emperor.
And it was headquartered
in Rome, not in heaven.
It was mixing Judaism,
and Mithraism, and some
of the other religions
of the Arabic world
that also worshipped
the sun, and brought
all of these different
religions together in order
to confirm the power of Caesar
in Rome under one religion,
and one government.
So it was actually
a world government
supposedly at the time.
Catholic means universal.
Air is Catholic, because
air all over the world.
Water is Catholic.
Anything which is
all over the world
is Catholic, because
it's a Latin word that
means universal.
Constantine was trying to unite
all the religions of the Roman
Empire into one.
Religious divisions
are very dangerous.
And they can also harbor
treason and anti government.
And so Caesar realized if he
could bring all the religions
into one religion, and
call it Christianity,
and yet it would have all
the parts of everyone else's
religion-- it would have
Judaism worship of the sun.
It would have Yahweh
as a part of it.
It would have Mithraism
So that everyone could agree
to follow one religion, which
Caesar would rule from.
He would rule from.
And so it was a political move.
That's all.
But the point is that
Constantine, the Roman emperor,
founded the Roman
Catholic church.
This is a Sumerian picturing
the sun on the altar.
In the ancient world the
Phoenician Canaanite Sumerians,
the Hittites, all of
these ancient cultures
always had helmets.
Their military wore helmets
with the rising sun symbol.
The rising sun symbol
is still used even today
around the world on
helmets and military.
Here in Rome you'll see the
Romans wearing the rising sun.
Again, you will see
here where the Romans,
they were brutal
rulers of the people.
But their symbol
was the rising sun.
And so now let's look
at the sun worship
today and its ancient
foundation, which
was the cult of Sol Invictus.
Sol Invictus is Sol, which
is the sun, and invincible.
The sun was said by the
Romans, it was invincible.
Why was the sun invincible?
Because every year it came
into its power in the summer.
And then it would
die in the winter
to the northern hemisphere.
But it would come back.
Every year it would come back
to the northern hemisphere.
So it may die in the winter,
but it's coming back.
It's invincible.
You can't keep it down.
And so we see today
the pictures of Sol.
And he is the sun
riding across the sky.
The sun was pictured
in Rome as riding
on a chariot across heaven.
And so the sun was
that lucky old sun
riding around heaven all day,
roaming around heaven all day,
obviously on a chariot.
And here is Sol Invicti.
Or this is a picture of Mithra.
And it shows us the sun spokes,
the sun rays around his head,
the sun god of Rome.
Now, in the doctoral
thesis there
was a very important book called
"The Cult of Sol Invictus."
And in it, it shows you
all of the connections
with the Roman government,
the Roman religion,
the Roman commerce, the
entire state of Rome.
And the ancient Roman Empire
was all based on the sun.
And you'll see like
the sun cult up
to the first century
of the empire,
the political background
of it, the establishment
of the cult of Sol Invicti,
the dogma, the teachings
of the ancient religion.
Deus Sol Invictus is
the true Roman sun god.
Of course, the Roman
sun worship can
be traced back to the ancient
Egyptian sun god, Amen-Ra.
So Amen-Ra was-- we use
the word today R-A-Y, ray.
Sun ray.
But the ancient Egyptians
called their god, Ra.
That's where ray comes from.
So it was called the cult of
Ra, or the cult of the sun ray.
And so here is Amen-Ray,
the official name
of the sun god in Egypt.
Amen-Ray.
A-M-E-N hyphen R-A.
Here's Amen-Ra again.
Now, when you see Amen-Ra,
the Egyptian sun god
was the supreme god
of the universe,
as said by the Egyptians.
But what is
important to remember
is that Amen-Ra today in
our supposed modern day
world and our Christian church,
both Catholic and Protestant,
they refuse to give up the
old pagan sun cult of Amen-Ra.
And so today this is why
when you pray to God,
you end up by saying
amen, because you're
sending your prayer
through God's sun, Amen-Ra.
The Catholic church is replete
with all kinds of suns symbols.
You'll always see the Pope
wearing large sun symbols.
It's on his head.
It's on his gloves.
It's on the outside of churches.
It's at the top
of churches also,
implying the sun is risen.
And the sun rays are
dominating the Catholic church
all over the world.
So here are paintings on
the wall of the Vatican,
showing the angels,
showing the worker--
the common man, the worker--
to look to the sun for his
food, and for his life,
and for everything.
God's sun is the
light of the world.
And so the Catholic
church or the Vatican
is promoting sun worship.
Everywhere the Catholic
church and Christians meet,
you will see the sun.
This is a convention held in
the United States for the pope,
and to honor the pope, and to
honor the Catholic presence
in America.
But you will see that there is
a sun in the middle representing
Christianity.
God's sun, the
light of the world.
"The Savior is Born."
Here are pictures from modern
day magazines of Christians.
"The Savior is Born."
Is there a child?
You'll see a child there?
No.
You'll see the sun.
And so the sun is always golden.
So the little son of God has
the spokes of the ancient cross
behind his head.
You will see he's
always pictured
as a blonde, or the sun baby.
And here's the mother
holding her son.
And here in the Vatican is a
very interesting picture of--
this is a sculpture
in the Vatican.
And it is showing Jesus'
mother, the Virgin, which
is Virgo, the Virgin
of the zodiac,
holding her newborn sun, S-U-N.
And this is in the Vatican.
Both baby Jesus and
the grown up Jesus
are trying to show you
what it's all symbolizing.
It's symbolizing sun worship.
Here you have the baby
Jesus showing you the sun.
Here the sun worship in
the Jerusalem temple,
the ancient Hebrews
worshipping the sun.
Today we have the pope all
over the world carrying
the sun's symbol for the sun.
This is not a man on a cross.
This is obviously sun worship.
And you will see
the sun everywhere.
Here's the pope.
This is what is being
promoted throughout the world
as Christianity, but which
is in fact sun worship.
Now, the ancient Egyptians
pictured the sun had wings.
And we see the sun as
rolling across heaven.
The sun in India, and the
Hindu worship of the sun.
Now, here we have the Inca
priest kneeling on an altar,
and offering up the wine and
the altar to the sun god.
The same you will see in Japan.
You'll see in England
the singing praises
and a hymn to the rising sun.
The wood carving
picture of the Jews.
And worshipping the sun.
And here, again, are the four
gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John.
And they are writing about
their Savior, the sun.
Because Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John
are spring, summer,
autumn, winter.
The four seasons
are symbolically
represented by four gospels.
This is a very important book
showing the sun in the church
today.
Cathedrals are
solar observatories.
Now, of course, in India, the
most important sun god in India
was Krishna.
We know that the Jesuits,
when they went into India back
in the 1500s, they learned
very quickly the whole religion
of God's sun, the light
of the world in India,
who was Krishna.
And they came back and
infiltrated those teachings
and concepts into what
we call Christianity.
This is the work of the
church borrowing the stories
from the ancient world of sun
gods who died on the cross.
Now, here is an ancient
Babylonian king.
And his name was Shemesh.
And he was a
Babylonian sun king.
And you'll see the altar in
front of him has the sun.
But this is very important.
A Babylonian king
being worshipped.
And his name was Shemesh.
It's because in the Hebrew
language, or for the Jews,
Shemesh is the sun in
the Jewish language.
Here we have 37 of what
we call suns of God
from the ancient
world to the modern.
And they all have the same
identity, and the same stories
that go with their lives.
They were born of a virgin.
They died on a cross.
They were dead for three
days, and then was resurrected
and came back.
Their father was a carpenter.
And almost all of these had 12
followers or twelve apostles.
They had the same story
that we have in Christianity
37 times over.
So it's a continuation of
the same story coming out
of the ancient world.
And today we call it
Catholicism, or Christianity.
So the reason why
these themes keep
repeating themselves is
because it is what is called
the greatest story ever told.
I think it is the
greatest story ever told,
that the son is
born each morning,
and ultimately dies at
night, and then emerges
the next morning, and
bring light back again.
But then dies again.
And so the whole story is on the
subjects of the whole universe,
how our skies work, and
how the planets work.
I think that the idea that there
are 37 major sun gods, and each
have the same kind of a
story, where they die and were
resurrected, and they
had a virgin birth,
it seems to imply that there was
some sort of an ancient, really
truly ancient culture
that developed
this idea and this
story for the world.
And therefore, it has
become known as the greatest
story ever told, because it
is, in fact, the greatest
story ever told, because so many
ancient cultures have picked it
up and applied it to their own
selves, their own gods, who
had the same story of dying on
a cross and being resurrected.
There will not be any messiah
coming back for the Jews,
for the Christians, or for any
other religion on the Earth.
It's all based on
ancient concepts
of the prehistoric and
ancient world of the sun
representing life to the Earth.
So there won't be any messiah
coming back, because there
was none to start with.
It's all based on the sun
being the giver of life.
So now that we have the
technology today that we have,
where we can talk to the
world through the system
of technology, we can now begin
to show the whole world where
all of this has come from, all
of these ideas, concepts, gods,
and sun gods have come from.
We're now able to do that with
the technology we have today.
So so many people
today are now beginning
to see that their ancient and
highly venerated religions
are merely part of a world
continuation of a same story,
the greatest story ever told.
I'm Jordan Maxwell.
And thanks for watching.